[AIRFLOW-5718] Add SFTPToGoogleCloudStorageOperator (#6393)
mistercrunch/Airflow: docs/howto/operator/gcp/sftp_to_gcs.rst

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

SFTP to Google Cloud Storage Transfer Operator
==============================================

> Google has service `Google Cloud Storage <https://cloud.google.com/storage/>`__ that is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google has service `Google Cloud Storage <https://cloud.google.com/storage/>`__ that is
```
Google has a service named `Google Cloud Storage <https://cloud.google.com/storage/>`__ This service is used to store large data from various applications.

Author: Fixed.

> Google has s service `Google Cloud Storage <https://cloud.google.com/storage/>`__. This service is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google has a service `Google Cloud Storage <https://cloud.google.com/storage/>`__. This service is
```

used to store large data from various applications.
SFTP (SSH File Transfer Protocol) is a secure file transfer protocol.

> It runs over the SSH protocol. It supports the full security and authentication functionality of SSH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It runs over the SSH protocol. It supports the full security and authentication functionality of the SSH.
```

.. contents::
  :depth: 1
  :local:

Prerequisite Tasks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. include:: _partials/prerequisite_tasks.rst

.. _howto/operator:SFTPToGoogleCloudStorageOperator:

Operator
^^^^^^^^

Transfer files between SFTP and Google Storage is performed with the
:class:`~airflow.operators.sftp_to_gcs.SFTPToGoogleCloudStorageOperator` operator.

> You can use :ref:`Jinja templating <jinja-templating>` with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use :ref:`Jinja templating <jinja-templating>` with
```

:template-fields:`airflow.operators.sftp_to_gcs.SFTPToGoogleCloudStorageOperator`

> parameters which allows you to dynamically determine values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parameters which allows you to dynamically determine values.
```
Use Jinja templating to define values dynamically.

Author: Fixed.

> Copy single files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy single files
```
Copying single files

Author: Fixed.

-----------------

> The following Operator would copy a single file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following Operator would copy a single file.
```
The following Operator copies a single file.

Author: Fixed.

.. exampleinclude:: ../../../../airflow/example_dags/example_sftp_to_gcs.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 4
    :start-after: [START howto_operator_sftp_to_gcs_copy_single_file]
    :end-before: [END howto_operator_sftp_to_gcs_copy_single_file]

> Moving single file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moving single file
```
Moving a single file

> Moving single file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moving a single file
```

> Move single file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Move single file
```
Moving a single file

Author: Fixed.

----------------

> Using the ``move_object`` parameter allows you to move the file. After copying the file to Google Storage,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the ``move_object`` parameter allows you to move the file. After copying the file to Google Storage,
```
To move the file use the ``move_object`` parameter. Once the file is copied to Google Storage,

Author: Fixed.

> the original file from the SFTP is deleted. Using the ``destination_path`` defines the path to which file

Reviewer: What did you mean in this and 65 row about the path of the file? I don't quite get the sentence that relates to 

> be present in the bucket.

Author: Finally I've changed to `The ``destination_path`` parameter defines the full path of the file in the bucket.` (discussed offline)

will be present in the bucket.

.. exampleinclude:: ../../../../airflow/example_dags/example_sftp_to_gcs.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 4
    :start-after: [START howto_operator_sftp_to_gcs_move_single_file_destination]
    :end-before: [END howto_operator_sftp_to_gcs_move_single_file_destination]

> Copy directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy directory
```
Copying directory

Author: Fixed.

-----------------

> Use the ``wildcard`` in ``source_path`` parameter to copy the directory.

Reviewer 2: It would be great to mention the limitation that only one wildcard is supported.

Author: Sure. Information will be added. It is important to mention it.

> Using the ``wildcard`` in ``source_path`` parameter allows you to copy the directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the ``wildcard`` in ``source_path`` parameter allows you to copy the directory.
```
Use the ``wildcard`` in ``source_path`` parameter to copy the directory.

Author: Fixed.

.. exampleinclude:: ../../../../airflow/example_dags/example_sftp_to_gcs.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 4
    :start-after: [START howto_operator_sftp_to_gcs_copy_directory]
    :end-before: [END howto_operator_sftp_to_gcs_copy_directory]

> Move specific files

Reviewer: Moving specific files

Author: Fixed.

-------------------

> Using the ``wildcard`` in ``source_path`` parameter allows you to move the specific files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the ``wildcard`` in ``source_path`` parameter allows you to move the specific files.
```
Use the ``wildcard`` in ``source_path`` parameter to move the specific files.

Author: Fixed.

> Using the ``destination_path`` defines the path which will be prefixed to all copied files,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``destination_path`` defines the path that is prefixed to all copied files,
```
Not sure about ```prefixed``` though :-) Also, if you use the ```wildcard``` in ```source_path``` and you start writing about ```destination_path``` is it something you have to introduce to define the path to copied files that have been moved already to the specific files?

Author: I used 'prefixed' from some other docs and this word follows the parameters naming in the GCS Hook so hopefully it is good place for it :)

> e.g. ``tests_sftp_hook_dir/subdir/parent-1.bin`` will be copied to ``specific_files/parent-1.bin``,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
e.g. ``tests_sftp_hook_dir/subdir/parent-1.bin`` is copied to ``specific_files/parent-1.bin``,
```

> ``tests_sftp_hook_dir/subdir/parent-2.bin`` will be copied to ``specific_files/parent-2.bin`` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and ``tests_sftp_hook_dir/subdir/parent-2.bin`` is copied to ``specific_files/parent-2.bin`` .
```

> ``tests_sftp_hook_dir/subdir/parent-3.txt`` will be skipped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``tests_sftp_hook_dir/subdir/parent-3.txt`` is skipped.
```

.. exampleinclude:: ../../../../airflow/example_dags/example_sftp_to_gcs.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 4
    :start-after: [START howto_operator_sftp_to_gcs_move_specific_files]
    :end-before: [END howto_operator_sftp_to_gcs_move_specific_files]

Reference
^^^^^^^^^

> For further information, look at:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see
```

    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

SFTP to Google Cloud Storage Transfer Operator
==============================================

Google has service `Google Cloud Storage <https://cloud.google.com/storage/>`__ that is
used to store large data from various applications.
SFTP (SSH File Transfer Protocol) is a secure file transfer protocol.
It runs over the SSH protocol. It supports the full security and authentication functionality of SSH.

.. contents::
  :depth: 1
  :local:

Prerequisite Tasks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. include:: _partials/prerequisite_tasks.rst

.. _howto/operator:SFTPToGoogleCloudStorageOperator:

Operator
^^^^^^^^

Transfer files between SFTP and Google Storage is performed with the
:class:`~airflow.operators.sftp_to_gcs.SFTPToGoogleCloudStorageOperator` operator.

You can use :ref:`Jinja templating <jinja-templating>` with
:template-fields:`airflow.operators.sftp_to_gcs.SFTPToGoogleCloudStorageOperator`
parameters which allows you to dynamically determine values.

Arguments
^^^^^^^^^

Some arguments in the example DAG are taken from the OS environment variables:

> .. exampleinclude:: ../../../../airflow/example_dags/example_sftp_to_gcs.py

Reviewer 3: This is not needed in the latest guide template, because we have a button that allows you to see the entire source code of the example.

Author: What does it mean? Should I use `literalinclude` instead of `exampleinclude` everywhere?

Author: We discussed offline and I will delete it since it is not required to keep it here.
